Select component tutorial [WIP] (#181)
patternfly/training-scenarios: react-components/select/step5.md

Typeahead variants support adding new options, based on the user entered input. This is supported in two parts, first by allowing a user to select their custom input, and second by allowing this custom input to be added to the overall list of options for permanence.

> 1. Add the isCreateable flag to the Select component.

Reviewer: After the code block, say: this is what your select component should look like and add the code snippet

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
  isCreatable
</pre>

> With this flag, a new message is displayed at the end of the list, prompting the user to create an option based on the input. Additionally, this message replaces the "no results found" message when filtering would otherwise return nothing. This lets you use your current value as a new selection, but does not persist the data - it will appear as selected, but will not appear in the overall list.

Reviewer: wrap this in a note

> To persist a new value permanently, use the onCreateOption property.

Reviewer: Wrap this in a hint

> 2. Add a method to the App class to add a new value to the options array. The function recieves the text input entered by the user, and is triggered when a new option is selected.

Reviewer: split up this instruction so that is shows the action first then where it should be. `Add a method that adds a new value to the options array. Add this method to ... `

Reviewer 2: typo with recieves. sb receives :)

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
  onCreateOption = newValue => {
    this.setState({
      options: [
        ...this.state.options,
        &lt;SelectOption
          value={new CustomDataState(newValue, "any", "other data", 0)}
        &gt;
          {newValue}
        &lt;/SelectOption&gt;
      ]
    });
  };
</pre>

> 3. Add the onCreateOption function to the Select component:

Reviewer: `Add a new property to the select component called `onCreateOption` and assign it to the class that was added in step 2`

Reviewer 2: the comma after user should be removed

> Another customization option, available for all variants, is custom display and data for the Select options.

Reviewer: wrap select in back-ticks

> Let's begin with customizing the data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Begin with customizing the data. 
```

> To change what data is passed around, and back to you on selection, you must implement a class that contains any data you wish to persist and a `toString` function, which converts whatever data you include in the structure to a string format. This allows the component to internally compare options for filtering, and gives some limited customization for the option's display.

Reviewer: Remove instances of "you"

> 1) **Copy the following `CustomDataState` class into the `App.js` file, outside of the App class:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) **Add a `CustomDataState` class **.

Add the class to the `App.js` file, outside of the App class:
```

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
  class CustomDataState {
    constructor(name, abbreviation, capital, founded) {
      this.name = name;
      this.abbreviation = abbreviation;
      this.capital = capital;
      this.founded = founded;
    }
    toString = () =>
      `${this.name} (${this.abbreviation}) - Founded: ${this.founded}`;
  }
</pre>

> <strong>Note:</strong> This class may contain any properties you wish to maintain as data when an option is selected. The `toString` function tells the select component how to display and compare the data as a string.

Reviewer: Remove instances of "you"

> <strong>Note:</strong> You may import the `SelectOptionObject` interface from @patternfly/react-core if using TypeScript. This interface would enforce the required `toString` function for `CustomDataState`.

Reviewer: Theres two notes here in a row, are any of these important to the step? it would be good to move it up

Author: The first one is more informational and I will move it above the snippet. The second is only important if TypeScript is used like our documentation, but Katacoda only uses JS so I can maybe remove it?

Reviewer: Yeah good point I think you can remove it for now

> 2) **Replace the state's `options` property, located in the App class constructor, with the following array that uses `CustomDataState`:**

Reviewer: Again multiple steps in the one action. Split up into overall action, and then subsequent instructions.

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
  options: [
    &lt;SelectOption
      value={new CustomDataState("Alabama", "AL", "Montgomery", 1846)}
    /&gt;,
    &lt;SelectOption
      value={new CustomDataState("Florida", "FL", "Tailahassee", 1845)}
    /&gt;,
    &lt;SelectOption
      value={new CustomDataState("New Jersey", "NJ", "Trenton", 1787)}
    /&gt;
  ]
</pre>

> Currently, the `CustomDataState` is required `toString` function is used to display the data in the list. This allows for some limited customization in display, but if you want to use custom nodes, or separate data with display, you may use the children property of the `SelectOption`.

Reviewer: I think you can move this above the code snippit. Also not sure if first sentence makes sense. Also remove instances of "you"

> 3) Edit the options state to display something different than the CustomDataState's toString.

Reviewer: wrap props etc in back-ticks

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
  options: [
    &lt;SelectOption
      value={new CustomDataState("Alabama", "AL", "Montgomery", 1846)}
    &gt;
      Alabama / AL
    &lt;/SelectOption&gt;,
    &lt;SelectOption
      value={new CustomDataState("Florida", "FL", "Tailahassee", 1845)}
    &gt;
      Florida / FL
    &lt;/SelectOption&gt;,
    &lt;SelectOption
      value={new CustomDataState("New Jersey", "NJ", "Trenton", 1787)}
    &gt;
      New Jersey / NJ
    &lt;/SelectOption&gt;
  ]
</pre>

> Now, you should see these new values being displayed, and the filtering will match based on this display. In the case of html structures passed as a child, the component will convert the structure to a string for filtering.

Reviewer: remove "you"

> Another customization option, available for all variants, is custom display and data for the `Select` options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom display and custom data can be used to customize the `Select` options. These are also available for all variants.
```

Begin with customizing the data. 

> To change what data is passed around, and back to you on selection, implement a class that contains any data you wish to persist and a `toString` function, which converts the data in the structure to a string format. This allows the component to internally compare options for filtering, and gives some limited customization for the option's display.

Reviewer: remove instance of "you"

1) **Add a `CustomDataState` class.**

Add the class to the `App.js` file, outside of the App class.

<strong>Note:</strong> This class may contain any amount of properties, and these will be passed back as data when an option is selected. The `toString` function tells the select component how to display and compare the data as a string.

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
class CustomDataState {
  constructor(name, abbreviation, capital, founded) {
    this.name = name;
    this.abbreviation = abbreviation;
    this.capital = capital;
    this.founded = founded;
  }
  toString = () =>
    `${this.name} (${this.abbreviation}) - Founded: ${this.founded}`;
}
</pre>

<strong>Note:</strong> You may import the `SelectOptionObject` interface from @patternfly/react-core if using TypeScript. This interface would enforce the required `toString` function for `CustomDataState`.

> 2) **Replace the state's `options` property with the following array that uses `CustomDataState`.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) **Replace the state's `options` property.**

 Replace the property with the following array that uses `CustomDataState`.
```

The state is located in the App class constructor.

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
options: [
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("Alabama", "AL", "Montgomery", 1846)}
  /&gt;,
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("Florida", "FL", "Tailahassee", 1845)}
  /&gt;,
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("New Jersey", "NJ", "Trenton", 1787)}
  /&gt;
]
</pre>

> 3) **Edit the state's `options` to display something different than the CustomDataState's toString.**

Reviewer: Confused as to what to do at this step can you make the instructions more clear should I copy the code underneath?

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
options: [
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("Alabama", "AL", "Montgomery", 1846)}
  &gt;
    Alabama / AL
  &lt;/SelectOption&gt;,
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("Florida", "FL", "Tailahassee", 1845)}
  &gt;
    Florida / FL
  &lt;/SelectOption&gt;,
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("New Jersey", "NJ", "Trenton", 1787)}
  &gt;
    New Jersey / NJ
  &lt;/SelectOption&gt;
]
</pre>

> New values are being displayed, and the typeahead filtering will match based on this display. In the case of html structures passed as a child, the component will convert the structure to a string for filtering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New values are being displayed, and the typeahead filtering will match based on this display. In the case of HTML structures passed as a child, the component will convert the structure to a string for filtering.
```

Custom display and custom data can be used to customize the `select` options. These are also available for all variants.

Begin with customizing the data. 

> To change what data is passed around, and passed back on selection, implement a class that contains any data you wish to persist and a `toString` function, which converts the data in the structure to a string format. This allows the component to internally compare options for filtering, and gives some limited customization for the option's display.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To change what data is passed around, and passed back on selection, implement a class that contains any data you wish to persist and a `toString` function, which converts the data in the structure to a string format. This allows the component to internally compare options for filtering and gives some limited customization for the option's display.
```

1) **Add a `CustomDataState` class.**

Add the class to the `App.js` file, outside of the App class.

> <strong>Note:</strong> This class may contain any amount of properties, and these will be passed back as data when an option is selected. The `toString` function tells the select component how to display and compare the data as a string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<strong>Note:</strong> This class may contain any amount of properties, and these will be passed back as data when an option is selected. The `toString` function tells the select component on how to display and compare the data as a string.
```

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
options: [
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("Alabama", "AL", "Montgomery", 1846)}
  /&gt;,
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("Florida", "FL", "Tailahassee", 1845)}
  /&gt;,
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("New Jersey", "NJ", "Trenton", 1787)}
  /&gt;
]
</pre>

3) **Edit the state's `options` property to use a custom display.**

Replace the property with the following array, or edit the `children` property of each option.

Instead of using the `toString` function in `CustomDataState`, the `select` component will display and filter options based on the `children` property.

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
options: [
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("Alabama", "AL", "Montgomery", 1846)}
  &gt;
    Alabama / AL
  &lt;/SelectOption&gt;,
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("Florida", "FL", "Tailahassee", 1845)}
  &gt;
    Florida / FL
  &lt;/SelectOption&gt;,
  &lt;SelectOption
    value={new CustomDataState("New Jersey", "NJ", "Trenton", 1787)}
  &gt;
    New Jersey / NJ
  &lt;/SelectOption&gt;
]
</pre>

> New values are being displayed, and the typeahead filtering will match based on this display. In the case of HTML structures passed as a child, the component will convert the structure to a string for filtering.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
New values are displayed, and the typeahead filtering will match based on this display. In the case of HTML, structures passed as a child. The component will convert the structure to a string for filtering.
```
